Chunk 7:
 above  
stated stature for each group of 20 brokers so as to ensure that adequate services are provided in a 
timely manner by the Broker Back Office Vendor to the Brokers.   
 
Broker Back -Office Application Standards, Practice and Conventions                                   
2.2 Application and Ven dor Evaluation Process   
Software Service Vendors intending to apply and become Exchange approved Back -Office -System -
Vendors shall apply to Exchange in writing along with their credentials, relevant documents, list of 
their Skilled -worked -force .  
2.2.1  Term a nd Duration of Vendor E ligibility  
The Exchange shall authorize the vendor for a period of three years and Vendors shall be required to 
attain renewal after successful completion of term . Vendors once approved by the Exchange shall 
ensure that provisioning should be made in their system with regard to regulatory changes that takes 
place after the approval and before the expiry date.  
2.2.2  Software vendor and Security vendor should be independent of 
each other  
Software vendor and security vendor of any securities broker should not be the same during a 
particular given period.  
2.2.3  Eligibility criteria for brokers who have developed their own back 
office systems   
In order to ensure standardiz ation and consistency of IT and reporting infrastructure, the 
regulatory requirements relating to selection of eligible vendors shall also be applicable to 
such brokers  who have developed their own back office systems . 
2.2.4  List of Eligible Vendor(s)  
Please ref er to t he latest captioned list on PSX website under section Product and 
Services > Broker Back Office System > List of Eligible Broker Back Office System 
Vendor(s) *. 
 
*This is neither approved nor a final list of eligible back -office -vendors.  
 
 
 
Broker Back -Office Application Standards, Practice and Conventions                                   4 SECTION 3  
THE BARE MINIMAL STANDARDS  
The Exchange Regulations require that the Software or application which TREC Holders use for 
trade -facilitation of their client and the Software that they use for risk-management and record -
keeping shall meet some  bare-minimal standards and specifications.  
The general controls for Broker Back Office  (BBO)  System must entail in the following manner:  
1. There shall be only single back office software and single book of accounts at any given time.  
2. Each application shall  be connected with single database.  
3. The remote access to applications and database shall be controlled. The on -demand access for 
the vendor shall be enabled for support purposes only via access request approval process only 
for the duration required. Remot e access users should be separately defined and clearly 
identified. For remote access by the vendor, only remote access users should be used and their 
activity should be fully logged and maintained.  
4. Formal change management procedures should be employed to  document the nature of 
change, justification, authorization, and other related business or technical level details.  
5. The Trade Log shall be updated online in the BBO System.  
6. The manual process to update the BBO system with trade log shall be discontinued.  
7. The broker should prepare clear written procedure regarding handling of all types of entries 
including amendments or change in the application/system  
8. All software changes must be deployed in presence of the TREC Holder support staff.  
9. The back office syst em should be capable to auto generate cheque from the system and 
simultaneous auto updating respective ledger account  
10. The software should only use supported technology  
In regards to the above, t he areas of  Account Opening, Trading, Clearing, Settlement an d Custody  
shall comply with Information and Application Security Standards specified by the Exchange along  
with the standards and specification s prescribed in this document.  
  
 
Broker Back -Office Application Standards, Practice and Conventions                                   5 3.1 Account Opening  
3.1.1  Client Account Management  
Client information stored in the system at the time of opening of the account shall not be allowed to 
be deleted once a client account is operational. However, modification with regard to client details 
shall be controlled and the system should be capable of storing the original information that has been 
modified . This may be noted that there no provisions in law which could allow the change of title of 
account of Client name . The system shall also have the provision to upload the client information 
from CD S  client setup report.  
3.1.1.1  KYC Principles  
The system should comply with KYC principles and standards and should have provision to 
electronically store the  scanned documents leading to the identity of the Client.  
3.1.1.2  Client / Account Classification  
The system should have provision to classify client s into various categories on the basis of  most 
recen t payment trend s in relation to the information obtained through KYC, so as to help identify 
high, low and medium risk clients.  
3.1.1.3  Reasignment of Client Code  
Further, the system shall ensure that client codes once assigned to any client shall not be reassigned 
to another client of the brokers even after the closure of account  so as to ensure the compliance of 
PSX rule book clause 8.6.1 as reproduced hereunder:   
Every B roker while inserting a bid and offer through KATS for each of his clients, shall insert 
unique Client Codes for those clients which are maintained by them in their back office 
system and registered with NCCPL. These Client Codes are linked/mapped to UIN t hrough 
the interface of NCCPL. These Client Codes should not be re -assigned to another 
client of the Brokers even after the closure of the account  
3.1.1.4  Web access for Clients   
The system should be provided a secure access through a URL for enquiring and viewing account 
statement s on real -time basis  or EOD basis . 
3.2 Trading  
Apart from complying with relevant regulations and storing information relating to trading of the client , 
the system should have provisions to have trade -time and trade -confirmation -SMS sent time stored 
in the system.    
 
Broker Back -Office Application Standards, Practice and Conventions                                   6 3.3 Maker and Checker functionality  
In order to facilitate role based permissions and auditing , the system should have provisions of 
maker and checker functionality  for each and every transactions/account entry which is substantial 
and material.  
The principle of maker and checker means that in order to have proper segregation of duties for each 
transaction  (wherever required) , there must be at least two individuals necessary for its completion. 
While one individual may create a trans action, the other individual should be involved in 
confirmation/authorization of the same.  
3.4 Audit Logs  and Privil ege Roles 
The system shall be capable of generating and storing audit logs for all users and information in 
respect of login, data entry, and trail of modification /deletion  with date and time along with 
exception al reporting  at user and system level.  
The Broker Back Office System should e stablish and maintain operational and systems in -built audit 
control to facilitate automatic reconciliations  and perform exceptional reporting:  
 Number of Order, their quantities and values entered  
 Number of Clients, their quantities, volumes and executed values  
 Number of Stocks, Markets and types of order and values processed  
 Gross Settlement values versus  totals at Client, Market and Stocks level    
3.5 Reports to comply with regulatory requirements  
The system should be capable of generating and processing reports in the manner to enable TREC 
holders to comply with the requirements of regulatory framework . At minimum, the system shall be 
capable of generating /processing  the following reports;  
1- Wash trade report (company level/branch level/agent level)  
2- Blank  sale report (company level/branch level/agent level)  
3- Trade rectification report (company level/branch level/agent level)  
4- Cross trade report (company level/branch level/agent level)  
5- Employee s investment holding period report (as required under section 16(3)f of 
Securities Brokers (Licensing And Operations) Regulations 2016  
6- Client assets segregation and rec onciliation report  
7- Order register in the manner prescribed under section 19(4) of Securities Brokers 
(Licensing And Operations) Regulations 2016   
 
Broker Back -Office Application Standards, Practice and Conventions                                   
8- Monthly IBTS reports as in the manner prescribed under Section 9.11(a) and 9.11(b) of 
PSX Rule Book.  
9- Securitie s Balance Movement Report  
10- Margin Trading System & Margin Financing Detail Report  
11- Monthly statements of liquid capital  
3.6 Other Key Areas  
The system must also include the provision for setting -up of branches, catering to accounting needs 
of various market s, multiple settlement cycles, maintenance of General and Su b-General Ledger and 
mapping of  client with a  ledger account.  The system shall contain provisions for recording and 
maintenance of the following details/records;  
1- Fixed asset register report  
2- Accounting ledgers  
3- Client trial balance  
4- Accounting trial balance  
5- Income statement  
6- Balance sheet  
7- Bank reconciliation report  
3.7 Reconciliations  and Back Office Accounting System   
The System should contain provisions for day-end-reconciliation s of back -office sys tems custody 
with CDC and NCCPL. The system must  also ensure the segregations of customer money and own 
funds by the way of maintenance of proper  books and account, recording of liabilities , ledgers 
reflecting cash and custody movement  and day -end-reconc iliations of clients funds with client bank 
accounts.  
 


####Document_4  

2. Objectives
2.1 BUSINESS OBJECTIVES
The following is a list of business objectives:
Objective 1: System will require registration and will be password protected.
Objective 2: Account Setup functionality must be supported that includes the following
customer data:
 First Name, Middle Name {Optional}, Last Name
 Home and Mailing Addresses
 E-mail Address
 Social Security Number
 Two Phone Numbers
 Marital Status
 Beneficiary Name, Beneficiary SSN, and Beneficiary Relationship
Objective 3: Account Maintenance functionality must be supported that allows user to close
account and edit personal information and includes the following customer data:
 First Name, Middle Name {Optional}, Last Name
 Home and Mailing Addresses
 E-mail Address
 Social Security Number
 Two Phone Numbers
 Marital Status
 Beneficiary Name, Beneficiary SSN, and Beneficiary Relationship
Objective 4: Cash Management functionality must be supported that allows user to
withdraw and deposit money and includes the following customer data:
 Transaction type
 Amount
 Account Number
Objective 5: Quotes functionality must be supported that displays the following quotes:
 Current
 Past
 Watched

7
Objective 6: Transaction functionality must be supported that includes the following types:
 Buying stock
 Market Price
 Good-till-Cancel
 Selling Stock
 Market Price
 Stop Loss
 Good-till-Cancel
2.2 SYSTEM OBJECTIVES
The following is a list of system objectives:
Objective 1: System will be Web-based.
Objective 2: MySQL will be used as the database.
Objective 3: GoDaddy will be used for webhosting.
Objective 4: System will use PHP.
Objective 5: System will support Internet Explorer.
Objective 6: User interface will be intuitive.

8
3. Project Context Diagram
3.1 CONTEXT DIAGRAM
The context diagram displays all high-level components.
3.2 CONTEXT DIAGRAM UML

9
4. Systems Requirements
4.1 REQUIREMENTS OVERVIEW
The following are the requirements for each component of our system.
4.2 QUOTES REQUIREMENTS
Requirement Title: Quotes
Sequence No: 001
Short description: Display currently owned stock quotes, previously owned stock quotes,
watched stock quotes and quote lookup
Description: The system will display all currently owned stock quotes by querying a
database on a regular basis.
The system will display all previously owned stock quotes by querying a
database on a regular basis.
The system will display all watched stock quotes by querying a
database on a regular basis.
User will proceed to add/remove quotes from his/her watched list by
providing the following fields:
- Action: {Click Button: Add or Remove}
- Stock Symbol:{Stock Symbol to be Added only}
All quotes will be updated in real time as the user uses the page.
An add/remove confirmation will be automatically generated and
displayed on the screen.
The system will automatically move a stock to the current list when it is
bought from the watch list.
The system will automatically move a stock to the previous list when it is
sold from the current list.
The system will automatically move a stock to the current list when it is
bought from the history list.
The system will automatically move a stock to the current list when it is
bought initially.
Pre-Conditions: - The user must logon before performing this function
- The database must be loaded at user login
Post Conditions: - The quotes database will be saved when the user logs off
Other attributes: - Make sure multiple click does not yield multiple adds
- A link to symbol look up will be provided in case the user does
not know the stock symbol.

10
4.3 LOGIN AND SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
Requirement Title: Log on
Sequence No: 001
Short description: Log on to the system
Description:

