Chunk 3:
6.1.1 General
When planning for the information security management system, the organization shall consider the 
issues referred to in 4.1  and t he requirement s refer red to in 4.2  and determine the risks and opportunities 
that need to be addressed to:
a) ensure the information security management system can achieve its intended outcome(s);
b) prevent, or reduce, undesired effects; and
c) achieve continual improvement.
The organization shall plan:d) actions to address these risks and opportunities; and
e) how to
1) integrate and implement the actions into its information security management system 
processes; and
2) evaluate the effectiveness of these actions.
6.1.2 Information security risk assessment
The organization shall define and apply an information security risk assessment process that:
a) establishes and maintains information security risk criteria that include:
1) the risk acceptance criteria; and
2) criteria for performing information security risk assessments;
b) ensures that repeated information security risk assessments produce consistent, valid and 
comparable results; 
 ISO/IEC 2013  All rights reserved 3
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Provided by IHS under license with ISO 
Licensee=University of Alberta/5966844001, User=john, albert
Not for Resale, 11/16/2013 21:40:53 MST
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,`,```,,,`,`,``,`,,``,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`--- ISO/IEC 27001:2013(E)
c) identifies the information security risks:
1) apply the information security risk assessment process to identify risks associated with the loss 
of confidentiality, integrity and availability for information within the scope of the information security management system; and
2) identify the risk owners;
d) analyses the information security risks:
1) assess the potential consequences that would result if the risks identified in 6.1.2  c) 1) were 
to materialize;
2) assess the realistic likelihood of the occurrence of the risks identified in 6.1.2  c) 1); and
3) determine the levels of risk;
e) evaluates the information security risks:
1) compare the results of risk analysis with the risk criteria established in 6.1.2  a); and
2) prioritize the analysed risks for risk treatment.
The organization shall retain documented information about the information security risk assessment process.
6.1.3 Information security risk treatment
The organization shall define and apply an information security risk treatment process to:
a) select appropriate information security risk treatment options, taking account of the risk 
assessment results;
b) determine all controls that are necessary to implement the information security risk treatment option(s) chosen;
NOTE Organizations can design controls as required, or identify them from any source.
c) compare the controls determined in 6.1.3  b) above with those in Annex  A and verify that no necessary 
controls have been omitted;
NOTE 1 A n nex  A contains a comprehensive list of control objectives and controls. Users of this International 
Standard are directed to Annex A  to ensure that no necessary controls are overlooked.
NOTE 2 Control objectives are implicitly included in the controls chosen. The control objectives and 
controls listed in Annex A  are not exhaustive and additional control objectives and controls may be needed.
d) produce a Statement of Applicability that contains the necessary controls (see 6.1.3  b) and c)) and 
justification for inclusions, whether they are implemented or not, and the justification for exclusions of controls from Annex A ;
e) formulate an information security risk treatment plan; and
f) obtain risk owners approval of the information security risk treatment plan and acceptance of the residual information security risks.
The organization shall retain documented information about the information security risk treatment process.
NOTE The information security risk assessment and treatment process in this International Standard aligns 
with the principles and generic guidelines provided in ISO 31000 [5]. 
4  ISO/IEC 2013  All rights reserved
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Provided by IHS under license with ISO 
Licensee=University of Alberta/5966844001, User=john, albert
Not for Resale, 11/16/2013 21:40:53 MST
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,`,```,,,`,`,``,`,,``,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`--- ISO/IEC 27001:2013(E)
6.2 Information security objectives and planning to achieve them
The organization shall establish information security objectives at relevant functions and levels.
The information security objectives shall:a) be consistent with the information security policy;
b) be measurable (if practicable);
c) take into account applicable information security requirements, and results from risk assessment 
and risk treatment;
d) be communicated; and
e) be updated as appropriate.
The organization shall retain documented information on the information security objectives.
When planning how to achieve its information security objectives, the organization shall determine:
f) what will be done;
g) what resources will be required;
h) who will be responsible;
i) when it will be completed; and
j) how the results will be evaluated.
7 Support
7.1 Resources
The organization shall determine and provide the resources needed for the establishment, implementation, 
maintenance and continual improvement of the information security management system.
7.2 Competence
The organization shall:
a) determine the necessary competence of person(s) doing work under its control that affects its 
information security performance;
b) ensure that these persons are competent on the basis of appropriate education, training, or experience;
c) where applicable, take actions to acquire the necessary competence, and evaluate the effectiveness of the actions taken; and
d) retain appropriate documented information as evidence of competence.
NOTE Applicable actions may include, for example: the provision of training to, the mentoring of, or the re-
assignment of current employees; or the hiring or contracting of competent persons.
7.3 Awareness
Persons doing work under the organizations control shall be aware of:
a) the information security policy; 
 ISO/IEC 2013  All rights reserved 5
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Provided by IHS under license with ISO 
Licensee=University of Alberta/5966844001, User=john, albert
Not for Resale, 11/16/2013 21:40:53 MST
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,`,```,,,`,`,``,`,,``,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`--- ISO/IEC 27001:2013(E)
b) their contribution to the effectiveness of the information security management system, including 
the benefits of improved information security performance; and
c) the implications of not conforming with the information security management system requirements.
7.4 Communication
The organization shall determine the need for internal and external communications relevant to the information security management system including:
a) on what to communicate;
b) when to communicate;
c) with whom to communicate;
d) who shall communicate; and
e) the processes by which communication shall be effected.
7.5 Documented information
7.5.1 General
The organizations information security management system shall include:a) documented information required by this International Standard; and
b) documented information determined by the organization as being necessary for the effectiveness of 
the information security management system.
NOTE The extent of documented information for an information security management system can differ 
from one organization to another due to:
1) the size of organization and its type of activities, processes, products and services;
2) the complexity of processes and their interactions; and
3) the competence of persons.
7.5.2 Creating and updating
When creating and updating documented information the organization shall ensure appropriate:
a) identification and description (e.g. a title, date, author, or reference number);
b) format (e.g. language, software version, graphics) and media (e.g. paper, electronic); and
c) review and approval for suitability and adequacy.
7.5.3 Control of documented information
Documented information required by the information security management system and by this 
International Standard shall be controlled to ensure:
a) it is available and suitable for use, where and when it is needed; and
b) it is adequately protected (e.g. from loss of confidentiality, improper use, or loss of integrity). 
6  ISO/IEC 2013  All rights reserved
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Provided by IHS under license with ISO 
Licensee=University of Alberta/5966844001, User=john, albert
Not for Resale, 11/16/2013 21:40:53 MST
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
ISO/IEC 27001:2013(E)
For the control of documented information, the organization shall address the following activities, 
as applicable:
c) distribution, access, retrieval and use;
d) storage and preservation, including the preservation of legibility;
e) control of changes (e.g. version control); and
f) retention and disposition.
Documented information of external origin, determined by the organization to be necessary for 
the planning and operation of the information security management system, shall be identified as 
appropriate, and controlled.
NOTE Access implies a decision regarding the permission to view the documented information only, or the 
permission and authority to view and change the documented information, etc.
8 Operation
8.1 Operational planning and control
The organization shall plan, implement and control the processes needed to meet information security 
requirements, and to implement the actions determined in 6.1. The organization shall also implement 
plans to achieve information security objectives determined in 6.2.
The organization shall keep documented information to the extent necessary to have confidence that 
the processes have been carried out as planned.
The organization shall control planned changes and review the consequences of unintended changes, 
taking action to mitigate any adverse effects, as necessary.
The organization shall ensure that outsourced processes are determined and controlled.
8.2 Information security risk assessment
The organization shall perform information security risk assessments at planned intervals or when 
significant changes are proposed or occur, taking account of the criteria established in 6.1.2  a).
The organization shall retain documented information of the results of the information security risk assessments.
8.3 Information security risk treatment
The organization shall implement the information security risk treatment plan.
The organization shall retain documented information of the results of the information security 
risk treatment.
9 Performance evaluation
9.1 Monitoring, measurement, analysis and evaluation
The organization shall evaluate the information security performance and the effectiveness of the information security management system.
The organization shall determine:a) what needs to be monitored and measured, including information security processes and controls; 
 ISO/IEC 2013  All rights reserved 7
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Provided by IHS under license with ISO 
Licensee=University of Alberta/5966844001, User=john, albert
Not for Resale, 11/16/2013 21:40:53 MST
No reproduction or networking permitted without license from IHS
--`,,```,`,```,,,`,`,``,`,,``,,`-`-`,,`,,`,`,,`--- ISO/IEC 27001:2013(E)
b) the methods for monitoring, measurement, analysis and evaluation, as applicable, to ensure 
valid results;
NOTE The methods selected should produce comparable and reproducible results to be considered valid.
c) when the monitoring and measuring shall be performed;
d) who shall monitor and measure;
e) when the results from monitoring and measurement shall be analysed and evaluated; and
f) who shall analyse and evaluate these results.
The organization shall retain appropriate documented information as evidence of the monitoring and 
measurement results.
9.2 Internal audit
The organization shall conduct internal audits at planned intervals to provide information on whether 
the information security management system:
a) conforms to
1) the organizations own requirements for its information security management system; and
2) the requirements of this International Standard;
b) is effectively implemented and maintained.
The organization shall:c) plan, establish, implement and maintain an audit programme(s), including the frequency, methods, 
responsibilities, planning requirements and reporting. The audit programme(s) shall take into consideration the importance of the processes concerned and the results of previous audits;
d) define the audit criteria and scope for each audit;
e) select auditors and conduct audits that ensure objectivity and the impartiality of the audit process;
f) ensure that the results of the audits are reported to relevant management; and
g) retain documented information as evidence of the audit programme(s) and the audit results.
9.3 Management review
Top management shall review the organizations information security management system at planned intervals to ensure its continuing suitability, adequacy and effectiveness.
The management review shall include consideration of:a) the status of actions from previous management reviews;
b) changes in external and internal issues that are relevant to the information security management 
system;
c) feedback on the information security performance, including trends in:
1) nonconformities and corrective actions;
2) monitoring and measurement results;
3) audit results; and 
8  ISO/IEC 2013  All rights reserved
Copyright International Organization for Standardization 
Provided by IHS under license with ISO 
Licensee

